---
layout: post
title:  "The USB Trail"
author: Chidi
categories: [ Forensics, Hacking ]
tags: [Chidi, naijasecforce]
image: ../assets/images/shell_lunchbox_1.jpg
description: "My review of Inception movie. Acting, plot and something else in this short description."
featured: true
hidden: true
rating: 4.5
---


THE USB TRAIL: ANTI-FORENSICS AND ANTI-ANTI-FORENSICS BITTER ROMANCE

by Chidi Obumneme




USB Mass Storage devices come in several small sizes, capable of usage as attack tools against any group or organization. To this effect, researchers from Ben-Gurion University in Israel have discovered 29 ways USB devices can be used to attack and compromise computer systems. Likewise, the Insider Threat is a very great security risk posed to groups and organizations largely because of their privileged access to sensitive or proprietary information. These Insider Threats can leverage on their positions and decide to Exfiltrate Company Trade Secrets and sensitive information with the aim of selling same to competing organizations.

Exfiltration of proprietary data via USB Mass Storage devices proves a certain way to conduct this form of attack. Since every attacker’s aim is to cover every track of some form of misdeed, it is therefore the duty of the Digital Forensics Analyst to prove that such attack took effect, which is therefore the crux of this article – to prove the conduction of an attack using the USB device despite attempts by the attacker to clean up their tracks by employing anti-forensics techniques.
 
INTRODUCTION


In certain organizations, insertion of USB Mass Storage devices is hugely disallowed, which stems from an attack point of view, where it could be used to transport compromised data into the company systems, as well as stealing company data. Despite such “no-USB” policies, threats from disgruntled employees utilizing such devices are still rife. Therefore, unravelling the activities of insider threats (with respect to usage of USB Mass Storage devices) is needful, hence this article.

The article underscores the importance of USB forensics as it highlights the fact that the usage of USB devices on systems leave footprints, which the normal user is not usually aware of. To the sophisticated attacker, the need to cover tracks will lead to employing anti-forensics methods to erase traces of USB usage on the system, with the ultimate aim of frustrating the Forensics Analyst.




CASE STUDY


We present a typical scenario of data theft. Mr. XYZ of ABC Company has been relieved of his job based on suspicions that he has, on several occasions, stolen company trade secrets and sold them to the competitor. There is a need to establish this fact, that he has constantly stolen proprietary documents. The suspicion is pinned on the fact that he has always exfiltrated data through a USB Mass storage device despite ABC Company’s “no USB” policy.

In this article, the author will simulate the data exfiltration process, forensics, anti-forensics and anti-anti-forensics techniques on a freshly installed Windows 8 machine.

Looking at the Registry Editor (regedit.exe), in the figure below, we can clearly see that USB Mass Storage devices have not been used on it. This is clearly known by the absence of the USBSTOR key, which ordinarily is found in Computer\HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Enum \USBSTOR.
 













